CT-972 Native datatypes docs (#484)
keboola/connection-docs: storage/tables/data-types/index.md

```json
{
  "name": "id",
  "basetype": "NUMERIC"
}
```

### Changing Types of Existing Typed Columns

**You can't change the type of column of a typed table once it has been created.** There are multiple ways to work around this. 

First, if the table is loaded using full load, you can drop the table and create a new table with the correct types and load the data there. 

If the table is loaded incrementally, you must create a new column and copy the data from the old one.

* You have a column `date` of type `VARCHAR` in a typed table, and you want to change it to `TIMESTAMP`.
* You first add a new column `date_timestamp` of type `TIMESTAMP` to the table.
* Then you change all the jobs filling the table to fill the new and old columns.
* Then you run an ad-hoc transformation, which will copy data from `date` to `date_timestamp` in the existing rows.
* Then you can slowly change all the places where `date` is used to use `date_timestamp` instead.
* When you only use the new column, the old one can be removed.

> In both cases, check all the downstream configurations so that you don't get any schema mismatch. This is especially important for data destinations, where there is already an existing table in the destination.

Author: ```suggestion
In both cases, check all the other configurations using the table so that you don't get any schema mismatch. This is especially important for data destination components (writers), where there is already an existing table in the destination.
```

### Incremental Loading

When you load data incrementally, there is a difference between typed and non-typed tables. Typed tables only compare the columns of the table's primary key, while non-typed tables compare the whole row, updating rows where any value changes. This is described in detail in our documentation on [incremental loading](/storage/tables/#difference-between-tables-with-native-datatypes-and-string-tables).

### Handling NULLs

Columns without native types are always `VARCHAR NOT NULL`. This means you don't need to care about a specific NULL behavior. This changes with typed columns. In most databases, NULL does not equal NULL (`NULL == NULL` is not `TRUE`, but `NULL`). This breaks the incremental loading flow where columns are compared against each other.

For this reason, please make sure that your primary key columns are not nullable. This is most relevant in CTAS queries, where columns are nullable by default. To work around this, specify the columns as part of the CTAS expression. For example:

```sql
CREATE TABLE "ctas_table" (
    "id" NUMBER NOT NULL,

>     "nYou don't need to just cast NOT NULL,

Author: ```suggestion
    "name" VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
```

</tr>
</table>

## Native datatypes

> As mentioned above, Keboola stores data in Storage as text by default. Native datatypes feature breaks this paradigm. If this feature is enabled, data in Storage are stored in columns with datatypes based on Keboola metadata. 

Reviewer: Tady na začátek bych přidal, že to jak to funguje závisí na backendu a hlavně link na backends a dál se věnujeme hlavně snowflake backendu

Author: Žádnou stránku "backends" nemáme :)

Reviewer: https://help.keboola.com/storage/#storage-data

#### Manually via API

Table with type definition is created using [tables-definition enpoint](https://keboola.docs.apiary.io/#reference/tables/create-table-definition/create-new-table-definition) and data is then loaded into it. Datatypes used in this endpoint have to correspond with the Storage backend which your project uses. Alternatively, you can use [BASETYPES](#base-types).

#### Output mapping of a component

A component may provide information about columns datatypes in its data manifest. Database extractors and transformations matching storage backend (e.g. Snowflake SQL transformation on Snowflake storage backend) will create storage tables with same types. Database extractors and transformations NOT matching backend will create storage tables using [BASETYPES](#base-types). 

For example, this is how you can create typed tables in Snowflake SQL transformation, that will be imported to Storage as typed tables: 

```sql
-- create a table with datatypes
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE "typed_table" (
    "id" NUMBER,
    "name" VARCHAR(255),
    "created_at" TIMESTAMP_NTZ
);

-- insert some data
INSERT INTO "typed_table"
VALUES
    (1, '75', '2020-01-01 00:00:00');

> -- create a table with different datatypes from an existing table

Reviewer: create another table with datatypes based on an existing table

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE "typed_table_2" AS
SELECT
    "id"::varchar AS "string_id",
    "name"::number AS "numeric_name",
    "created_at"::date AS "typed_date"
FROM
    "typed_table";
```

> ***Note:** The datatype hinting is components' responsibility, so all components need to be updated by their respective authors to support this. This is why most components don't produce basetypes for columns yet and thus produce tables without types. Not even all database extractors and transformations produce basetypes yet. There is no list of components that support this feature. You may check the component's documentation to see if it supports native datatypes.* 

Reviewer: To je sice pravda, ale pro usera dost matoucín navíc. "so all components need to be updated by their respective authors to support this." se nikdy nestane a spousta komponent bude navždy produkovat stringy.

Providing information about data types is the responsibility of each component. So far typed tables are created (provided that the project feature is enabled) by Snowflake transformations, and some Database Extractors (Snowflake MySQL/Postgre/MSSQL (pokud je to pravda)). There is no list of components that support this feature. You may check the component's documentation to see if it supports native datatypes.

```json
{
  "name": "id",
  "basetype": "NUMERIC"
}
```

### Changing Types of Existing Typed Columns

**You can't change the type of column of a typed table once it has been created.** There are multiple ways to work around this. 

First, if the table is loaded using full load, you can drop the table and create a new table with the correct types and load the data there. 

If the table is loaded incrementally, you have to create a new column and copy the data from the old one.

* You have a column `date` of type `VARCHAR` in a typed table, and you want to change it to `TIMESTAMP`.
* You first add a new column `date_timestamp` of type `TIMESTAMP` to the table.
* Then you change all the jobs filling the table to fill the new column as well as the old one.
* Then you run an ad-hoc transformation, which will copy data from `date` to `date_timestamp` for existing rows.
* Then you can slowly change all the places where `date` is used to use `date_timestamp` instead.
* When you only use the new column, the old one can be removed.

> In both cases, make sure to check all the downstream configurations so that you don't get any schema mismatch. This is especially important for data destinations, where there is already an existing table in the destination.

Reviewer: @hhanova  asi tady
